Finally if is capable of implementing conditional logic.
There are many ways that a variable expression can execute on a model attributes.
A variable expression can be used to return a model attribute or a value that derives from it.
It can execute a condition based on a model attributes.
It can also be used in a loop, and it can also execute utility methods on a model attribute.
In this lesson, we will be looking at executing conditionals.
We won't be implementing any conditional logic in the grade submission app, but it will come again
in your final challenge.
So pay close attention and I'll start you off by downloading the starter code on the following path.
So take some time to launch it from the Spring Boot resources.
Finally, if allows you to selectively render HTML elements depending on a condition.
Now remember that a variable expression executes on a model attribute in some way, and this variable
expression executes a condition based on a model attributes.
It grabs an age that was stored in the model and compares it against the value.
If true, it's going to render the paragraph element.
If it's false, the paragraph element will not render.
So here inside of the starter project, what we're going to do is access the model.
We'll say model.
Model.
And we're going to add.
An attribute where the key is going to be sales and let's just pass in sales of $100.
This should be ad attributes.
My apologies.
Now inside of the HTML.
What I'm going to do is create a paragraph element that says sales are good, and then what I'll do
is apply a thin leaf condition.
Finally, f.
F.
Finally f.
Will use a variable expression to execute a condition based on a model attributes.
So we're going to grab the sales value from the model.
And the condition that determines whether this element will render or not.
We'll be checking if the sales are greater than $50.
So if I go ahead and run this application.
Okay.
Running the app.
The condition is true.
So the element renders.
Going back, I'm going to change the sales to, let's say, $30.
And this time the HTML does not render.
Now finally fun.
This is the opposite of family faith.
It renders an element if your condition is false.
So back here, what I'm going to do is copy the exact same element and change it to unless.
If the sales are not bigger than 50, then we'll display sales are bad.
Run the up.
And the sales are bad.
Change the sales to $150.
And now sales are good.
If and unless are typically used together like this, as is typical to an if else block.
Now a ternary operator returns a value based on a condition.
Once more, a variable expression executes a condition based on a model attributes.
The first value to the right of the ternary operator is returned if the condition is true and the second
value is returned if the condition is false.
So back here, instead of having two paragraph elements, what I can do is say Leave text.
And the text value that gets returned will be based on the following condition.
So we'll say if sales were bigger than 50, if this condition is true, then we're going to return.
The string sales were good.
Now this doesn't do anything, but let's remove it anyways.
Otherwise we're going to say sales were bad.
Whenever I'm defining a string inside of a life expression, I wrap it around single quotes.
All right if I go back.
Beautiful.
But I go back here and say, 30 bucks.
Sales were bad.
Finally, text relies on a text of value that's returned based on the condition that's being evaluated.
This is really good.
I don't know about you, but I much prefer the ternary operator.
Timely switch compares a value against a list of cases and it renders the case match.
Timely switch is normally used when there are more than two possible results when we compare one value
against a list of cases.
The value is once again fetched from the model using a variable expression and is compared against a
list of cases.
The default case marked as a star executes in the event that the value from the model doesn't match
anything.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go back here and say, model, don't add attributes.
And what I'll do is I'll store a product value of table inside the model.
And then back here.
I will create a div.
Which, according to the cheat sheet, is a container that can hold many elements.
And this div is going to evaluate a switch condition.
Finally switch.
We're going to set this equal to a variable expression that fetches product from the model.
And we can execute a condition based on this model attribute by comparing this product against a list
of other products.
So what I'm going to do is create three paragraph elements.
Copying this over.
And here we'll say in the event that the product happens to be a chair.
This element is going to render and display $50.
If it happens to be a TV, we'll say $150 if the product from the model doesn't match any of the cases
in the event of a star.
Then we'll say no match.
And the default element was rendered because the table value does not match chair or TV.
So if I go back and make this into a chair.
The paragraph tag with the matching case is rendered.
All right.
So to recap, a variable expression can execute a condition based on a model attribute.
Finally, if render is an element, if a condition is true.
Family fun.
Less a render is an element if a condition is false.
The ternary operator returns a value based on a condition.
Switch renders the element with a matching case.
I hope you're prepared for the workbooks that lie ahead.